# Group 01 
## Reflections on our work
We chose to build an audit tool for consulting engineers to monitor the impact of the different material choices in the project. This was done with respect to the cost, structural calculations and the carbon emissions of the building. The tool itself needs quite a bit of work for it to be functional - mainly establishing a link to a Speckle stream which would promote good data culture in the project (i.e. everyone having access to the same data/single source of truth) and preserve the version history of all the material data.

Based on the response, there are also a couple of relections. It would make sense to link the tool to a material database from Molio. However, for this to work, it would have to be considered during the modelling process, i.e. the materials used in the BIM model would have to be the same as the ones in the database (which is not the case for Duplex, which just uses generic Revit materials).

Using dashboards from Power BI is definitely on the rise and something the major companies have picked up on. This would be interesting to examine from the cost estimation perspective: How are the material costs distributed throughout the floors? How has the historical data impacted the load distributions? etc. Exisiting solutions also exist to integrate BIM models into visualizations (Proving Ground's Tracer tool), but these are currently paid software. Speckle recently announced their own Power BI visualization for BIM, which is something to keep an eye on.

We do not ourselves have any plans to continue the work. An application to "actually" solve the desired use case and be usable in real-life-scenarios would be fairly large scale project. However, it would be interesting to look further into the IFC-based SVG drawings and optimize this process. SVG represents a more data-rich and user-friendly format than PDF while still being able to process virtually the same kind of data (i.e. geometric shapes and text). In the building industry (from a BIM perspective), all the different kinds of PDF features (i.e. hyperlinks, security passwords, signatures) are rarely used. Obviously, for tasks such as document handling and documentation, PDFs have their purpose, but when you boil down the main purpose of drawings - that being representing a building in 2D - SVG files offer an interesting perspective. Imagine an SVG drawing containing 1000 polygons with their own unique IDs coupled with an SQL database (or perhaps even a Speckle stream). For some very specific use cases, this could be an alternative to Revit: It would be much less computationally heavy (i.e. a relatively small amount of raw text compared to a bloated Revit model of 1GB) and open source - everyone can run it regardless of licensing.

If future work were to be conducted for the project as it is now, it would make good sense to port the project to a JS library/framework instead of doing everything in native JavaScript. For instance, React would be a good choice because of the UI heavy nature of a BIM application. For handling the IFC parts of the application, the framework IFC.js would be optimal to use to parse the IFC files, thereby eliminating the need for Python and making the application purely web-based.

